It is simply not possible to quantify or fully explain the depth of God’s patience and love towards me, so I would like to just briefly summarize how He has been merciful to me.

I was a professing Christian at this very church for many years, but severely fell away in apostasy around 2019 on account of a myriad of sins, issues, doubts, and false beliefs that had only grown and grown over time. I had spiraled so far down in mental despair that I resolutely believed that either the entirety of Christianity is not true, or if it was true that God only made me to be condemned in my sin. I lived each day under a weight of damnation. To me there was either no God at all or only a god of infinite wrath.

I was like the man in the iron cage as John Bunyan described in Pilgrim’s Progress, trapped under the knowledge of sin, but no sense of any hope of God’s love. Charles Spurgeon put it this way: “They are sensitive of their guilt, but powerless to believe that the crimson fountain can remove it: they are alive only to sorrow, despondency, and agony. Sin paralyzes them with despair. …they cannot believe it; they cannot rejoice, they cannot cast themselves on Jesus; they are utterly without strength.” That was me. 

I pray that none of you listening have walked on such a road. Thank God earnestly if you have not, for I cannot imagine a worse fate upon a living person: to believe you are already in hell, forsaken by God.

I continued like that for years until the proper time when God chose to reveal Himself to me. He chose to love me when I had done nothing but abandon Him. As Paul referenced Isaiah in Romans 10:20, "I have been found by those who did not seek me; I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me." And as John 15:16 says, “You did not choose me, but I chose you.” He showed me that night that I was indeed separated from Himself and was indeed utterly lost in my sin and unbelief, but that He was more utterly loving and merciful than I had ever dreamed. He was real and wanted to know me. I poured over biblical articles and scripture, and was graciously shown who God actually is: Father, Son, and Spirit. 

1 John 4:10 wonderfully declares that, “In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.” My sin of unbelief was even more utterly sinful than I had comprehended in my despair - I was sinning against a God of love, not hate. He granted me repentance by His Spirit, Jesus life and death, and His Fatherly love. I did nothing but bring my sin and joyfully respond in repentant faith that He also gave me. My sins were many, but His mercy was more. 

Repentance is not just feeling sorrow and hopeless despair over sin. True repentance leads a sinner to rest and trust in God. Not in a vague sense, but in a life-altering sense. Knowledge of sin and God will do you no good at all if you don't respond in your emotions and volitional will. You need all three. Neither will it help you to just do the right things with no emotional heart. We were saved to love God and be loved. Anything that leads you away from delighting in God who has loved you, loving Him, and loving others, is completely missing the point. I finally understand what it means that Christianity is not a religion, but a living and vibrant relationship with a God who loved me first and adopted me into His family. 

I’ll close with this quote from C.S. Lewis: “The great thing to remember is that, though our feelings come and go, His love for us does not. It is not wearied by our sins, or our indifference; and, therefore, it is quite relentless in its determination that we shall be cured of those sins, at whatever cost to us, at whatever cost to Him.” 

I stand here as one relentlessly loved forever by a living God in spite of my sin.

<script src="https://static.esvmedia.org/crossref/crossref.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>