---
title: Inseparable
type: docs
weight: 14
---

How do you explain what love is? 

A thought experiment that really intrigues me is how one would go about teaching someone a concept completely foreign to them but known to everyone else. How would you explain it? I don’t think that something as complex as love cannot be explained like a math equation or theory, so again how? I also don’t think a person should have to rely on personal subjective experience to be able to understand either. Imagine that we are trying to explain what a loving father is to an abandoned young boy who has never even heard of the words ‘love’ or ‘father’. Where would you even start? How do you teach what love is?

I admit that I myself am still struggling to fully understand love. I’m still learning, wrestling, and learning how to rest in being loved by God and what that means. Perhaps that's one of–if not the–great lessons of Christianity: learning how to live each day, learning how to be loved, and learning how to then love God and others in response.

I believe there are two ways God does this by giving us: “living experiences” and “listening experiences”. God throughout the Bible prefers to disclose truths about Himself and life through both types of personal teaching. You either learn by something you do or that happened to you, or you learn by listening to someone explain it through stories and instructions. Both are valid and you can learn from both of them, or one in lieu of the other if missing. 

Take the orphan boy again for example. He may not have even a shadow of “living experiences” to draw from in order to try and comprehend what a loving father might be, but he can be gently taught in the following ways: either show him love (new living experiences, relationships) and/or tell him of love (in stories, metaphors, analogies). Each will impact the heart and mind.

This is precisely what God does. Humanity's view of who God is has been damaged ever since the fall of man. Adam and Eve once knew God face to face, but going forward all people would now not fully understand who God is at all being dead in sin. What is man to do? 

God from the beginning was and always is actively pursuing sinful man and drawing him to Himself. He personally engages with us through “living experiences” as well as “listening experiences” through the Bible, life, instructions, stories, recorded accounts, and other faithful testimonies to teach us who He really is. He is the initiator, author, and founder of our understanding of what He is like - we are dependent on Him to teach us who He is.

Of course, the greatest visual way He chose to do this is to step into creation Himself–the eternal Son of God became a physical man to interact with sinful humanity face to face. What did He do? He came to seek and save the lost and estranged from Himself to bring them back to God. Every single thing Jesus did on earth was done to glorify His Father, reveal who God was, and save man from their sin and separation from Himself in loving concern. What does this tell us about what God is like? What can we gleam from thinking about how He acted and why?
Looking at Romans and Ephesians, see the entirety of the Father’s divine plan for humanity which Jesus then accomplished on earth through the Holy Spirit. Just consider this: God from before time began is eternally and lovingly happy in Himself as the triune God. Out of His overabundance of love and glory, He desires to love others too. To do so He creates a reality to love and humans to know Him despite knowing they will fall into sin.

Out of the people He creates, He specifically choses individuals before they are even born to set apart, pursue, and love forever. He predestined them to become adopted sons to Himself. Not everyone is chosen–many are not. He knows whom He has chosen to love and forgive–but also calls out to the entire world to come to Him and be saved from sin. This means that God Himself has chosen to create and save individual people for His purposes: to justify (declare righteous and free from sin), sanctify (slowly grow in holiness), and one day glorify (perfectly transform) sinners who deserve nothing but hell. Out of love He has chosen, planned, and executed a divine plan to love the unlovable.

To accomplish this, it means that not only is this God incomprehensibly powerful, but also purposeful and intentional. He has set His affections on specific people, and being God, He is able to do anything and everything to bring you to Himself safely home. He has the ability to love you. He has the will to love you. He has the unrelenting drive to love you. Jesus left the air of heaven to breathe the dust of earth, live, suffer, and die for you to bring you to Himself. 

This is what Paul is talking about when he closes the 8th chapter of Romans: if God Himself has chosen to love you, what can possibly keep you from God? God is omniscient, all powerful, all knowing, and utterly willing and able to love you. Nothing will stand in His way to love you. The great enemies–sin and death–are defeated at the cross. You are only a human–what could you do to hinder God? He is the Author of creation and the Father of reality. He can work life itself and all things together for your eternal good and His glory. Nothing will stop Him. He loves you. Not only does the Father love you, the Son and Spirit do too. The Father planned this for you. Jesus lived and died for you and makes intercession for you. The Holy Spirit is given to you and even lives within you right beside your soul. God has loved you to the utmost and will never ever leave you alone. Whom God embraces, He will never let go. You are safe and loved forever. It is essentially Him saying, “I have purposed to eternally and utterly love you. I have chosen you to be the object of my tender affections and heart. I will never leave you. You and I will be inseparable. Nothing in all eternity or creation will take you away from me. I love you, my child.”

If you fully grasp this, it should make you feel almost uncomfortable– exposed, known, and loved at a deeper level than you may be comfortable with or used to. You might even feel anxious or embarrassed or simply blush in front of this kind One who is not shy at all in expressing how much He loves you. You don’t know how to handle it. Not a negative way of course, but almost in a baffling way. A way where you are almost scared in a sense of “I don't know why He loves me to such a degree and I also have no idea what He is going to do next.” That is precisely correct. While it sounds “too good to be true”, it is true. I myself am trying to understand this fully. I don't think it will be fully possible to understand God’s infinite love this side of eternity. I cannot explain God’s love perfectly. I can certainly try to as you have read above, but it is but a whisper of what His love is really like. Rest in His inseparable love.

> but your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear.  
> -- Isaiah 59:2

> What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God’s elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died—more than that, who was raised—who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? As it is written, “For your sake we are being killed all the day long; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.” No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.  
> -- Romans 8:31–39

> The LORD your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save; he will rejoice over you with gladness; he will quiet you by his love; he will exult over you with loud singing.  
> -- Zephaniah 3:17

> Is Ephraim my dear son? Is he my darling child? For as often as I speak against him, I do remember him still. Therefore my heart yearns for him; I will surely have mercy on him, declares the LORD.  
> -- Jeremiah 31:20

> And he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion, and ran and embraced him and kissed him.  
> -- Luke 15:20

> “Can a woman forget her nursing child, that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you. Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands; your walls are continually before me.  
> -- Isaiah 49:15–16

> Be strong and courageous. Do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the LORD your God who goes with you. He will not leave you or forsake you.” Then Moses summoned Joshua and said to him in the sight of all Israel, “Be strong and courageous, for you shall go with this people into the land that the LORD has sworn to their fathers to give them, and you shall put them in possession of it. It is the LORD who goes before you. He will be with you; he will not leave you or forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed.”  
> -- Deuteronomy 31:6–8

> Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the Beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us, in all wisdom and insight making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory.  
> -- Ephesians 1:3-14

<script src="https://static.esvmedia.org/crossref/crossref.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>